# Botvac Hacking & Development 
When I asked the company/developers they refused to tell me anything about the
device. I knew I could get shell, and I could use the JTAG port on the board.
And if you look at the board of the 85 and the wifi version, its the exact same
board with parts removed, so one could just add their own parts using those
slots or just add equivilent parts. But I wanted to determine how friendly they
were to open source developers and it turns out not at all. 

The lidar could be used to map a building. so it would mkae a good basis for
home auotmation, if there were a unified API that gathered data. It could help
setting up wifi, by detecting network deadspots, it could carry a microphone for
speaker system testing, humdity sensors for measuring humidty in various rooms.
This robot could be a data collector, since few other general purpose robots
need to move throughout a home. 

Ideally the future would be a completely open design made of cheap or recyled
parts, and modular and simple design makes it easy to construct; not so that
everyone is creating their own, but that manufacture is simple that people could
take it upon themselves to build them for sale to others, preferably using a
cooperative design over any conventional corporate structure. 

## Design 
Our first botvac hack is meant to be siple using a very cheap AT Tiny, or cheap
ARM M0+, that would tap the LVDS to allow for the robot to control the screen
but allow our hardware overlay hack to also write to the screen. It should also
be able to interact with the linux installation, and provide wireless
interaction with the shell. The shell provided by default is crippled and
doesn't allow for extending the functionality because if you could do that you
woud not be dependent on the company to provide you with insigificant upgrades
on the same hardware every few years. 

This parasitic relationsip between hardware companies, the people who use the
hardware, and treats hardware as if the earth was not just actively experiencing
ecosystem collapse (obviously not just do to poor use of refined and fabricated
materials, but it is absolutely a place we can take steps to improve; especially
since we all know continued refinement of materials used to make hardware are
not only economic engines for war, genocide, and all manner of exploitation and
human misery, but using the refined materials to build the same hardware over
and over, putting drive for profit far before technological progress, scientific
reality, or open and real ownership and control over the things around us. No
its not jus that, its also assembled in reclusive environments, where companies
arbitrate around legal regulations to exploit workers and shave small
percentages from the price in a race to the bottom. This entire model is not
just unsustainable, but it simply fails to model reality in any meaningful or
useful way. 

A model where the devies are open, upgradable, and built, extended and
maintained by the community that uses them; in the same way that open source
software powers the internet, but using democratically controlled cooperatives
we provide a way to economically reward contributions in a fair way. The only
people who have reason to oppose this clearly superior model are the board of
directors, who should be the first to be automated away anyways, they are much
cheaper to replace with software, cost more than the average factory floor
worker, and most importantly, function to divide voting control based on
arbitrary ill gotten metrics that do more to prove relation to descendents of
people who profited from human suffering, more often than ability to make
decisions. And giving all decision making power to these people is not just
undemocratic, and outright autocratic, or plutocratic; its a stupid model, that
fails to allow the creators, the maintainers, the people who understand and do
the work, have control over the process. 

## Conclusion
This is not a matter of opinion either, its a matter of science, one method
fails to properly model reality; and because of this creates human organizations
that find themselves checking one or two variables, stuck in an infinite loop,
burning up the planets resoruces until entire ecosystem collapse occurs; while
the other accounts for a higher resolution picture of the system, and is more
efficient because boards of directors are not just poor executors, compared to
software, they are expensive, slow, and inefficient. 


